In this folder you will find bash and python scripts that may be useful to prepare the files for bioinformatic analysis. This folder is under development and more scripts will be added in future when a specific need that can be solved by a script is identified.

Scripts available:

1) columns_compare.py: It takes as an argument a file called list.txt (2 columns tab separated) and reports:
 - Entries in the first column
 - Entries in the second column
 - Entries present in both columns
 - Entries missing from first column
 - Enties missing from second column
 As an example we used this to check if a list of samples in a spreadsheet have been all sequenced (i.e. creating a column from the folder containing the assembled sequences (ls *.fasta > sequences.txt)

2) bulk_remove_brackets: does what it says, remove brackets from sequences (or other files) names.

3) raw_seq_copier: Copy raw sequences R1 and R2 from different folders to a folder of choice (modify the script with destination folder). It takes as an argument a tab separated file called list.txt where in the first column you put all your samples (just the names not all sequence name i.e. for sample1_R1_001.fastq.gz and sample1_R1_001.fastq.gz the first column will contain just sample1), the second column contains the path.

4) reads_sampler: This script is currently setted to take 1000 sequences randomly selected using seqtk and multithread.  It takes fastq.gz files from an input folder of choice and save the reduced fastq.gz files in a folder of choice. The reduced files will have the same names of the original ones.
You can modify the value 1000 below to the desidered number of sequences needed.
Use this script to generate short sequences for testing pipelines or scripts on your personal SCE avoiding incurring in the costs of bigger SCE machines.
Usage: python -i input_folder -o output folder. Use -h for help. 
5) move_files_not_in_a_list: self explanatory. Modify the script with the .fasta folder, the list.txt folder and the destination folder. It will move all files not in the list into the destination folder.
6) filterseq: Filters sequencing with the name starting for XXX (i.e. ERR, IS12 etc.) and writes a new file with the filtered sequences
7) remove_specific_seq: remove specific sequences from a multifasta file. Useful to remove outliers.
8) cdhit-groups_parser: CD-HIT can group the sequences in a multifasta and use one sequence as a type sequence for that group. This script changes the original name of the type sequence with the group number to get a tree that only shows groups numbers at the leaves.
9) clone-hunter: takes a square matrix generated by snps-dist (remember to cancel the top left cell snps-dist_ver.. but keep the TAB) and finds all the couples of strains that have SNPs distance <=20 (the value can be modified). It then write a list  as follows strain1 strain2 distance. Usequl to quckly find clonal strains in a large set of samples.
